---
title: update 6
date: 2023-02-21 12:00
categories: update
slug: update-6
summary: Purge the Adobe!
---
Hey there, I’m late but not by much!

I’d like to say that I missed posting on Sunday because I was just so immersed in work but the truth is I was immersed in… v i d e o g a m e s!

Gasp! How dare!?

I decided to play Stacklands a bit to try “The Dark Forest” Update and just like that… I lost 20 hours of my week, I have no idea how, other than it has an incredibly satisfying game play loop.

For those in the dark, Stacklands is a village builder where you stack cards to collect food, build structures, and fight creatures.

{% include image.html id="stacklands.jpg" width=60 %}

Basically it’s Age of Empires but with cards. Placing a villager card on a tree will have them chop down the tree to get wood, place the wood on a villager and you get a stick, stick and some flint, now you’re cooking with a campfire.

Defo recommend giving the game a go, plus it’s only 4 quid!!

### Firing Adobe into space

Now I think I speak for everyone when I say that Photoshop maker Adobe are pretty trash, I’ve wanted to move away from Photoshop for a longgg time, but through sheer laziness I’ve carried on paying £10 a month, I only use it for very small things so I thought I should swap to something better / cheaper.

Affinity released their Designer 2 software recently so I gave it a go this week, I only did a small style study to see if I could get along with the paint brushes in it and I’m pretty much sold, I was gonna wait for a sale but I think I’ll just switch this month when the trial runs out.

I’ve wanted to do a study of Anna Hollinrake’s work for the longest time, She’s got an extremely strong grasp of colour and lighting, I managed to paint 2 little studies of one of her foliage pieces and it was enough for me to know that I’m comfortable painting in the Designer software.

{% include image.html id="paint-study.jpg" %}

I also get access to a bunch of vector graphics tools which will make UI much easier to create, so maybe Wunderwurld will get a big UI overhaul soon, it’s okay for now but as I add more things I’ll want to make a clean interface for the game like a day / night clock in the corner.

### What I did last week

I didn’t do many of the work things I planned last week, I’ll refocus and make progress for next week… or I won’t, we’ll see.

- Played too much Stacklands!!

- Painted some fun studies

- Worked on some procedural leg animation for creatures, too early to show but it’s already very promising, I’m hopeful I can keep dabbling for the next few weeks on it every now and then until Caterbee and run all over the island

- Played an amazing online escape room with family called Hallows Hill, 5 stars from me!

- Antman did indeed go small on the big screen!

- ˢᵗᶦˡˡ ʳᵘⁿⁿᶦⁿᵍ ᵉᵛᵉʳʸᵈᵃʸᵎ

### What I plan to do next week

Hopefully I can get the things I planned last week done, creature eating and a twitch stream of Wunderwurld dev, nothing else really planned, I’ll be cat-sitting with Emily so there will be no weekend work, will have to see how much I can feasibly do on evenings / lunches.

Thanks so much for reading these little posts. I hope you have had, and/or will have another great week!