---
title: update 12
date: 2023-09-28 12:00
categories: update
slug: update-12
summary: A Brand New Website!
---
Hello again, it's been a while hasn't it.

Almost 5 months since I last posted anything of substance, a lot has happened in that time so let's start things off simple.

### What is this again?

This is a blog / journal / thing for the thoughts and works of me,<br>
bumbleborn, aka joe, aka... actually that's it, it's just those 2.

### But wa... it's different

Yes, I was using substack before and whilst it had a whole bunch of fancy features it ultimately felt like overkill for what I wanted, I also feel some distance from what _platforms_ have become tbh.

Substack, twitter (I refuse to say it), facebook, tumblr, myspace, etc.

They all seem to be terrible in one way or another, either they're ruled by somewhat awful people or they're commanded by a group of shareholders that have no real stake in the game, they just want money.

 <span class="highlighted-text">__time__</span>.

 updates to go over
 - Wunderwurld, where is it at nowadays
 - Echo, it's 2d now? what?!
    - Echo Dev logs
 - Learned web dev stuff, enough to make this website with Jekyll anyway, it's horrible
 - Unity runtime stuff, trying out godot
 - Gone up to 4 days at work, reasons why and what it means for my indie projects
 - Promoted to Senior Tech Designer, what do I actually do at work, without actually saying lol
 - Plan for 2024
    - Permanently on 2 days from that point onwards and what that means
    - Youtube, making videos?
    - The year of releasing projects
    - First Echo on Playdate, then possibly a PC port later on in the year
    - Full steam ahead on Echo: The Quiet Climb
 - how GNR went